README.md for saving index pattern relationship (#2276)
opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards: src/plugins/saved_objects/README.md

# Saved Object

> The saved object plugin provides all the core services and functionalities of the saved objects, and is utilized by many other plugins such as visualizaton plugin, dashboard plugin and wizard plugin etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The saved object plugin provides all the core services and functionalities of saved objects, and is utilized by many core plugins such as `visualizations`, `dashboard`,  and `wizard`, as well as external plugins.
```

This might also be a good place to mention some of the basic mechanics of the saved object system.

> ## Save Relationships to Index Pattern

Reviewer: Ideally we'd have a general section for relationships and how they're defined, with this as a subsection. But it's fine for now.

> The saved object plugin provides all the core services and functionalities of saved objects. It is utilized by many core plugins such as [`visualizaton`](../visualizations/), [`dashboard`](../dashboard/) and [`wizard`](../wizard/), as well as external plugins.

Reviewer 2: A short description of what saved objects are would be very useful here. e.g. 

> They are the primary way to store or persist app/plugin data in a standardized form in OpenSearch Dashboards. They allow a plugin developer to manage creating, saving, editing and retrieving data that the application needs. They can also reference other saved objects and have useful features out of the box like migrations and strict typing. They can also be managed using the Saved Object Management UI.

This is just what came off the top of my head. I'd have someone like @vagimeli or @joshuarrrr correct the language though.

Author: Added the description. Thanks!!

> The relationships to index patterns are saved using the kibanaSavedObjectMeta attribute and the references array structure. Functions from the data plugin are utilized by the saved object plugin to manage this index pattern relationships. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Saved objects that have relationships to index patterns are saved using the `kibanaSavedObjectMeta` attribute and the references array structure. Functions from the data plugin are utilized by the saved object plugin to manage this index pattern relationships. 
```

A standard saved object and its index pattern relationship:

> ```.ts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ts
```

> The saved object plugin provides all the core services and functionalities of saved objects. It is utilized by many core plugins such as [`visualizaton`](../visualizations/), [`dashboard`](../dashboard/) and [`wizard`](../wizard/), as well as external plugins. Saved object is the primary way to store app and plugin data in a standardized form in OpenSearch Dashboards. They allow plugin developers to manage creating, saving, editing and retrieving data for the application. They can also make reference to other saved objects and have useful features out of the box, such as migrations and strict typings. The saved objects are managed by the Saved Object Management UI.

Reviewer 3: NIT: visualizaton --> visualization

Author: Thank you!

> The saved object plugin provides all the core services and functionalities of saved objects. It is utilized by many core plugins such as [`visualizaton`](../visualizations/), [`dashboard`](../dashboard/) and [`wizard`](../wizard/), as well as external plugins. Saved object is the primary way to store app and plugin data in a standardized form in OpenSearch Dashboards. They allow plugin developers to manage creating, saving, editing and retrieving data for the application. They can also make reference to other saved objects and have useful features out of the box, such as migrations and strict typings. The saved objects are managed by the Saved Object Management UI.

Reviewer 3: > The saved objects are managed by the Saved Object Management UI.

NIT: Technically there is a saved objects API that OpenSearch Dashboards serves up. But this statement reads to me this the only way to interact with saved objects. So maybe we can mention at least "The saved objects can be managed by the Saved Object Management UI"

"kibanaSavedObjectMeta" : {
    "searchSourceJSON" : """{"filter":[],"query":{"query":"","language":"kuery"},"indexRefName":"kibanaSavedObjectMeta.searchSourceJSON.index"}"""
      }
    },
    "type" : "visualization",
    "references" : [
      {
          "name" : "kibanaSavedObjectMeta.searchSourceJSON.index",
          "type" : "index-pattern",
          "id" : "90943e30-9a47-11e8-b64d-95841ca0b247"
      }
    ],

```

> ### Saving a saved object

Reviewer: Style nit - for headers, be consistent with casing, at least in the same doc, so "All Title Case" headers or "All sentence case" headers. My personal preference is for sentence case.

Author: Change to all sentence case headers~

When saving a saved object and its relationship to the index pattern: 

> 1. A saved object will be built using `buildSavedObject` function, services such as hydrating index pattern, initializing and serializing the saved object are set and configs such as saved object id, migration version are defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A saved object will be built using `buildSavedObject` function, which hydrates index pattern, initializes  the saved object, and defines configs such as saved object id and migration version.
```

Where is `buildSavedObject` defined? If possible, it can be nice to link to a permalink in the source code.

Author: Yes! i will add permalink throughout the doc

2. The saved object will then be serialized by three steps: 

>     a. By using `extractReferences` function from the data plugin, the index pattern information will be extracted using the index pattern id within the kibanaSavedObjectMeta, and the id will be replaced by a reference name, such as `indexRefName`; a corresponding index pattern object will then be created to include more detailed information of the index pattern: name (`kibanaSavedObjectMeta.searchSourceJSON.index`), type and id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a. By using `extractReferences` function from the data plugin, the index pattern information will be extracted using the index pattern id within the `kibanaSavedObjectMeta`, and the id will be replaced by a reference name, such as `indexRefName`; a corresponding index pattern object will then be created to include more detailed information of the index pattern: name (`kibanaSavedObjectMeta.searchSourceJSON.index`), type and id.
```

> 1. A saved object will be built using [`buildSavedObject`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/blob/4a06f5a6fe404a65b11775d292afaff4b8677c33/src/plugins/saved_objects/public/saved_object/helpers/build_saved_object.ts#L46) function. Services such as hydrating index pattern, initializing and serializing the saved object are set, and configs such as saved object id, migration version are defined.

Reviewer 3: What does hydrating index pattern mean

Author: The function ensures that the searchSource.index is a IndexPattern object and it will return that IndexPattern object; otherwise, it will return null.

    ```.ts
     let searchSourceFields = { ...state };
    const references = [];

    if (searchSourceFields.index) {
        const indexId = searchSourceFields.index.id || searchSourceFields.index;
        const refName = 'kibanaSavedObjectMeta.searchSourceJSON.index';
        references.push({
            name: refName,
            type: 'index-pattern',
            id: indexId
        });
        searchSourceFields = { ...searchSourceFields,
        indexRefName: refName,
        index: undefined
        };
    }
    ```

>     b. The indexRefName along with other information will be stringfied and saved into `kibanaSavedObjectMeta.searchSourceJSON`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    b. The `indexRefName` along with other information will be stringfied and saved into `kibanaSavedObjectMeta.searchSourceJSON`. 
```

    
    c. Saved object client will create the reference array attribute, and the index pattern object will be pushed into the  reference array.

### Loading an existing/Creating a new saved object

1. When loading an existing object or creating a new, `initializeSavedObject` function will be called. 
2. The saved object will be deserialized in the `applyOpenSearchResp` function.

>     a. Using `injectReferences` function from the data plugin, the index pattern reference name within the kibanaSavedObject will be subsituted by the index pattern id and the corerresponding index pattern reference object will be deleted if there are filters applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a. Using `injectReferences` function from the data plugin, the index pattern reference name within the `kibanaSavedObject` will be substituted by the index pattern id and the corresponding index pattern reference object will be deleted if there are filters applied.
```

      super({
        ... ...
        extractReferences,
        injectReferences,
        ... ...
        afterOpenSearchResp: async (savedObject: SavedObject) => {
          const savedVis = (savedObject as any) as ISavedVis;
          ... ...
          
          return (savedVis as any) as SavedObject;
        },
```

## Migration

When a saved object is created using a previous version, the migration will trigger if there is a new way of saving the saved object, and the migration functions alter the structure of the old saved object to follow the new structure. Migrations can be defined in the specific saved object type in the server folder of the plugin. For example, 

```.ts
export const visualizationSavedObjectType: SavedObjectsType = {
  name: 'visualization',
  management: {},
  mappings: {},
  migrations: visualizationSavedObjectTypeMigrations,
};
```

```.ts
const visualizationSavedObjectTypeMigrations = {
  '7.0.0': flow(migrateIndexPattern),
```

The migraton version will be saved as a `migrationVersion` attribute in the saved object, not to be confused with the other `verson` attribute.

```.ts
"migrationVersion" : {
    "visualization" : "1.0.0"
},
```

> For a more detailed explanation on the migration, please refer to `src/core/server/saved_objects/migrations/README.md`.

Reviewer: Awesome job cross-linking!

> If a saved object type wishes to have additional custom functionalities when extracting/injecting references, or after opensearch's response, it can define functions in the class constructor when extending the `SavedObjectClass`. For example, visualization plugin's [`SavedVis`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/blob/4a06f5a6fe404a65b11775d292afaff4b8677c33/src/plugins/visualizations/public/saved_visualizations/_saved_vis.ts#L91) class has additional `extractReferences`, `injectReferences` and `afterOpenSearchResp` functions defined in [`_saved_vis.ts`](../visualizations/public/saved_visualizations/_saved_vis.ts).

Reviewer 3: `or after opensearch's response` --> `or after OpenSearch's response`

>   '7.0.0': flow(migrateIndexPattern),

Reviewer 3: 7.0.0 is a legacy version still
